Okay. Good morning. Welcome to the Petty Profit Podcast, and I have a...
I have a repost episode for you this morning. This is something that we posted late last year, and I think it's good stuff. It's scripture, always applicable, so I hope you enjoy it. But before we
Uh, before we get into it, have a special guest for you and someone who's going to introduce the podcast, uh,
Who are you?
Claire, Claire, who?
Clover. talking your normal voice.
Clown belly, Ok. Now, what do you say at the beginning of the podcast? Welcome to the.
Pretty papa.
All right, and say, all right, and say,
Don't forget to subscribe
And don't forget to subscribe. All right.
All right.
Hope you are hanging in there in quarantine.
And enjoy.
Yeah.
Bye-bye.
Hello, this is Joel Berry. This is the Petty Profit Podcast. Thank you for listening. Today's episode is going to be a little bit shorter, or at least I'm going to try to make it shorter, the last couple.
A couple have been a little more long. Yeah.
And so I want to bring to you a...
A piece that my brother, Aaron Barry,
Wrote on his blog and kindly allowed me to republish it.
on my site.
And I just love it. And it's called Ten Proverbs for Social Media.
And these are, these are ten,
So, wise sayings from the book of Proverbs in the Bible.
Proverbs, of course, written by King Solomon, the son of King David, about three thousand years ago.
And I read these Proverbs, and I am amazed.
Just blown away.
by...
How incredibly?
Timely they are.
They, I feel like they could have been written yesterday. You know, we think that, ah.
All this stuff that we're encountering with social media is so new in, in,
A lot of ways it is new, but.
In other ways, there's nothing new. there's nothing new under the sun, in the sense that human nature has not changed. And,
You know, I, I believe the Bible is the inspired word of God. So if these words are inspired by God, they were,
Written by a creator who knows us and who knows human nature.
better than we even know ourselves. And so I love the way these sayings just
Cut right to the truth.
of what's going on in the human heart and are so applicable to.
how we behave on social media. and so i'm gonna just read through these, i'm gonna read through aaron's piece.
And keep in mind,
I am, uh, I am preaching every bit as much to myself.
Yeah. As to you guys, I am... I'm 100% sure
I would even go so far as to say I'm I'm preaching this as a complete hypocrite because I am a.
I am a notorious debater on social media, I love to argue. I do always try to keep it civil, but as I read these, no matter how many times I read these,
I read these. I always find something that really just cuts to the heart and convicts me of ways I fall short, of ways that I don't.
Uh,
I need to... I need to...
to be more obedient to the will of God when I am on social media. So let me just let's go through them.
Proverb number one.
This is Proverbs 29, 29 through 3
Verse eleven,
And it says, a fool gives full vent to his spirit. Right.
But a wise man,
Quietly holds it back.
And I think,
you know social media has
Become this great
Platform for self-expression, for for getting everything out.
There's something to be said for,
Being more
Judicious about what we choose to.
event and what we choose not to.
Social media is probably
The absolute worst.
Placed event, as a matter of fact.,
So be wise.
Hold it back. if there's something you need to get off your, ah, get off your chest,
Talk to a trusted friend, talk to a family member, or better yet,
Talk to God about it.
Proverb number two.
If a wise man has an argument with a fool, the fool only rages and laughs. There is no quiet. Proverbs twenty nine.
1 Corinthians 1, verse 9. Ver
So keep this in mind too. If you find yourself in an argument with a fool,
There may be better ways to to use your time. You're not going to get very far arguing with a fool. And.
if you're the one raging and laughing maybe maybe you're the full in this this scenario i i think i've me personally probably been on both sides um.
so when you're arguing, when you're debating someone, when you're discussing something on social media, twitter, facebook, do you try to drown out the voices of disagreement by by raging and.
And laughing.
And when you realize that you're on the wrong side of the argument, do you resort to name calling? Yeah.
Character assault, correcting grammar, things like that.
Remember that proverb, if a wise man has an argument with a fool, the fool only rages and laughs. There is no quiet.
Don't be the fool.
Proverb number three,
A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion.
Proverbs eighteen, Verse two, Do you find a sense of fulfillment and satisfaction when you speak your mind on social media?
Perhaps social media would be of greater benefit to all of us if we used it to hear,
And learn from others instead of making sure everyone else hears and learns from us.
Really, really convicting.
Proverbs number four, if one gives an answer before he hears, he hears.
It is a folly and a shame. Proverbs 18, verse 13. Boy, that is something that happens.
All the time.
Have you ever...
Reposted an article or commented on an article without actually reading it. You know, you just read the headline.
Um,
Don't do that. A lot of those titles are clickbait anyway, and the the.
The body of the article doesn't always
Jive with what the headline is saying. So so don't give an answer before you fully heard the argument.
Take the time to read it and carefully digest it before you start typing.
Okay.
Proverb number, are we on five? I think we're on five.
Yeah, five.
Or when words are many, transgression is not lacking, but whoever restrains his lips is prudent.
Proverbs ten, nineteen.
If you're an avid user of social media, there's a good chance you have tweeted or posted something you regret. I mean, it's happened to all of us.
Political figures and celebrities get in trouble for things they tweeted years ago. we see it all the time.
So as tempting as it might be to post that
Edgy, controversial thought. Is that, you know, think?
Think to yourself if it's really necessary.
Don't censor yourself if there's something that really does need to be said, but sometimes it's more prudent to simply just put your phone down.
All right, next proverb.
Proverbs twelve, eighteen.
There is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts.
But the tongue of the wise brings healing.
Do your words bring healing?
If you want a clear window into the depravity of man's heart, just scroll through your news feed. Look through the comments on your average YouTube video.
As Christians, we should bring healing through our use of social media instead of thrusting daggers at others.
But that won't happen if we don't think before we type.
Next proverb.
I've lost count.
Proverbs twenty six.
2. Verse 17, whoever meddles in a quarrel, not his own, says,
It is like one who takes a passing dog by the ears.
Don't look for a fight.
If you're scrounging through social media,
For no other reason but to look for arguments to join or pages to troll, step back and consider if God is being glorified and the cause of Christ is being furthered by your use of.
Use of social media.
14.3. Next proverb, Proverbs 14.3. By the mouth of a fool, by the
Comes a rod for his back.
But the lips of the wise will preserve them.
Your own words can get you in trouble.
Can people use your comments, status updates, and tweets against you?
The wise person is actually preserved by the words he uses, not beaten with them.
This means that the words of the wise are carefully chosen, graciously spoken,
And consistent with their life and testimony.
16. Next proverb, Proverbs 12, 16. The vexation of a fool is known at once. 17.
But the prudent ignores an insult. that's that's a tough one.
I think there's this culture of,
of ah on social media where you know we call them clapbacks right you know you want to if someone zings you the.
Culturally accepted responses, you got to come up with a good zing to get them back, right?
It is really hard sometimes to ignore an insult on social media without answering it.
So,
you know do people on social media know exactly how to push your buttons? do they know exactly what gets you riled up?
When someone throws an insult your way, do you punch back?
The prudent man will quietly ignore an insult.
As tough as it may be, don't
Respond to that harsh tweet or comment. ask for God's grace and walk away from it.
And then finally, last proverb, Proverbs 15, 1.
This is one of my favorites. A soft answer turns away wrath.
But a harsh word stirs up anger.
If you should decide to comment on something, are you coming to make peace or are you trying to add fuel to a fire?
It can be all too easy to take the side of truth, or at least what we think is true, but to do so by saying unkind and inflammatory things.
Sometimes that truth is lost.
We forget that somewhere out there, our opponent is a person made in God's image that we are called to love.
So in conclusion,
We need God's grace to follow these principles.
Don't think that hiding behind your keyboard means you can hide from accountability.
How sobering it is to think that on the day of judgment people will give account for every careless word they speak.
With the presence of social media, we have a lot more words for which we will be accountable, and that's kind of a scary thought sometimes, isn't it?
But with the help of the Spirit, we can glorify God and display Jesus Christ in the realm of social media. And I think there's great opportunity for Christians to be salt and light.
in the realm of social media. And it's hard. I mean, I have failed.
Um, many times.
I have said things that I regret before.
When you're engaging with people online,
Remember these proverbs.
Write them down, keep them close at hand. Remember that the person,
That you are discussing these issues with is more important than the issues.
that they are a human being made in God's image.
God's
Will for you.
Is to love them
To show them his love
Um, and to speak the truth in love.
yeah so that is it for today ten proverbs for social media and thank you so much to my brother Aaron Barry for submitting that I i just love it i'm gonna keep these proverbs
16 Proverbs, close at hand. I will also put the references in the show notes so you can copy them down and
If you so desire
And thank you for listening to the Petty Profit podcast. this is Joel Berry, and I will talk to you tomorrow. thanks a lot.